something is about to change in social
media are you ready for it
hey everyone i'm neil patel and this
will completely change social media
marketing in 2022 if it already has it
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click on the alert
notification
before i dive into what's going to
change i want you
to leave a comment below on what you
think it is seriously look since 2020
with the pandemic companies basically
were forced to take digital marketing
seriously
so what do you think is that has really
changed
leave a comment below i just gave you a
hint and i already know you're awesome
and i already know you got it but let's
dive into it
lots of companies couldn't rely on foot
traffic anymore to generate revenue
because of the lockdowns and social
distances this led to a huge explosion
and demand for digital marketing and
social media is one of the best channels
for businesses to leverage sprout
socials 2021 index found that 9 out of
10 consumers will buy from brands that
they follow on social 86
will choose that brand over competitor
and 85
will buy from that brand more often
so while competition is expected to grow
so is consumers willingness to use this
marketing channel to make buying
decisions you can expect social media to
get even more competitive over the
coming year and as companies start
getting better
and more competitive in social media
marketing you'll have to compete for
attention far more than before
so here are some things that you can do
to compete in a level playing field
according to sprout social there are a
few key factors that will differentiate
you from your competition
the first one is respond to customer
service questions in a timely manner
don't you just hate it when you hit
someone up and you have issues and it
takes them a few days to get back
you want to answer right then no one
wants to wait even an hour
time is everything
a lot of social media users are engaging
with their brands beyond just following
up you need to demonstrate responsive
and answer the customers in a timely
fashion
next demonstrate an understanding of
what
you they want and need so what do people
want and need and as you go about
creating content you should keep
customers in mind because it's all about
servicing them and providing stuff for
them
it's like i meet some people who are
like i got the best business idea
i'm going to make s'more
cupcakes i'm like this is cool but is
there a demand for it may taste good but
if there's not really a demand for it it
won't do well and it's not about you and
your brand it's about how we can serve
your customers and your audience
knowing what your potential customers
want and need is going to differentiate
you from all these brands and other
brands that are just churning out
content for the sake of highlighting
their products their services and their
own brands a good way to measure this is
by looking at different content pieces
and seeing which one gets the most
engagement whether it's the format the
message type itself the content type
whether it's video or text
it's always good to see what stand out
and gets more engaging
as you discover the types of content
that tend to perform well just do more
of them
but here's the thing that no one really
talks about in marketing for the ones
that don't do well don't never do them
again
every once in a while whether it's a few
times a year or once a quarter test them
out again because trends change and
people may like them again and then if
you do that you'll keep staying ahead of
the curve and you'll start doing better
next i want you to create more
culturally relevant content today we can
see more and more brands creating
content around cultural events that
mobilize people's attention like black
lives matter and the metoo movement and
even some mainstream sports events like
the olympics
so when you create content around some
of these moments and events especially
the ones that you want to support and
believe in as an organization and as
long as you know no one's doing anything
unethical it's great to support events
and different people and cultures
and genders
and what you want to do is
leverage them and show that you're there
and if you can do anything that ties
your company into them and not just
leverage them to make financial profit
but leverage them to also help people
that will resonate with them and it'll
create a win-win situation but you
should only do it if you truly care
don't just do something for marketing do
something because you truly care you
should be listening to what's drawing
your audience's attention and create
content that resonates with those topics
that includes putting out user generated
content
because user general content is amazing
do you want to spend all your time
sitting in front of keyboard writing
content when other people can do it for
you
that's the example in power using your
content i also want you to create
educational content about
products or services that you offer
this is where this is the difference
between selling and showing up look
selling is great but you want to show up
and have that generate sales for you
when it's about your product it
shouldn't just be about hey let me go
and sell this it should be about
educating and putting things first for
others for example if you have some cool
makeup product and your product helps
people
not just put on the makeup quicker but
just take it off really quick because
sometimes when i do video shoots not
this one but for other people they make
me wear makeup and then they're like oh
here's a wipe wipe it off and then i go
home and still touch them like what the
heck this makeup's still there but if
you can show a product and just get it
off really quickly in one circular wipe
you're gonna get so many sales
you should be able to show your product
in a way
that revolves around your customers
problems their needs and their wants and
not just try to sell them but help them
solve those problems
one brand that does a fantastic job of
this when it comes to this type of
content is whole foods they invest in
visual content in a form of images and
videos improving their audience with
recipes and highlighting factual
benefits and different types of foods
that they're showcasing and they're
super responsive and engaging with their
audience and engage with me on social
right so it's like you want to tell
people hey engage with me just like i'll
tell you right now check out my profiles
my neil patel ones on instagram my np
digital ones and this is obvious but
when you tell other people to engage
with you and brands forget to do this
you'll get way more engagement from your
audience and you should be actively
engaging with them by answering their
comments their questions even looking at
their profiles and responding and
engaging there whether it's on instagram
or facebook or even adding stories or
tagging people this will all help you do
better
now if you need help with your social
media marketing in 2022 check out my ad
agency np digital if you have any
questions or comments
leave a comment below
i will answer it and i'll help you out
if you enjoyed the video like it share
and thank you for your time today i
really appreciate you watching this
video